The ScanPyramids Project will use thermal
imaging, drone-mounted scanners and radiographic
muons to create 3D models and hopefully figure
out exactly how the pyramids were built.
And research from Ohio University attempting
to solve a dinosaur nose mystery - suggests
nasal passages were designed for airflow to
cool blood on the way to dino brains.
Vsauce!
Kevin here.
This is Mind Blow.
This acoustic hologram is tractor beam that
uses sound.
Developed by researchers at the Universities
of Britol and Sussex in collaboration with
Ultrahaptics - it can lift and manipulate
objects in mid air.
Acoustic levitation like that mentioned in
Mind Blow #50 had previously been hampered
by limited maneuverability but this new system
uses 64 miniature loudspeakers emiting high-frequency
sound with controllable output for manipulating
levitating objects.
Potential uses include zero-gravity environments
for optimizing cell-growth, container-less
transportation to move parts in factories
and targeted drug delivery by manipulating
particles inside our bodies.
The hurdles to clear for using this to move
people include the amount of power that would
require and not killing them.
Scientists at Lehigh University are controlling
fruit flies' heart with lasers.
Optogenetics was first developed to control
neurons with light and researchers are applying
it to cardiology in an attempt to create a
non-invasive pacemaker.
But bringing this to humans would require
a great deal of further research including
what type of light to use how to actually
deliver that light source.
The vOICe sunglasses are designed to allow
blind people to see with sound.
The device translates video to sound with
vertical position being frequency, left-right
position to scan time and brightness to loudness.
So for example, dark pixels at the bottom
of the video would be heard quietly and with
a low pitch while bright pixels at the top
of the video would sound high-pitched and
loud.
The system requires sensory substitution training
and they hope to further develop it by studying
sensory integration in the brain.
Prieto battery is a 3D porous lithium-ion
battery.
In development for nearly five years, they
recently created the first successful 3D battery
that can be charged, discharged and hold a
charge and just announced a partnership with
Intel.
Traditional batteries are two dimensional
which limits speed and direction of energy
which causes long charge times and fast discharge.
A three dimensional architecture would increase
surface area, allow for multi-dimensional
movement and ultimately lead to fast charging
and longer battery life.
Their goal is to have this available by 2018.
Researchers at Okayama University have created
a tube-free pneumatic rubber actuator.
The system has no moving parts - it uses electricity
during the gas generation stage to create
hydrogen and oxygen gas from water and reverses
the process during the gas absorption stage
to simply become water again.
And this gas generator could be used to power
soft robots.
The Gest controller looks to replace the keyboard
and mouse for augmented and virtual reality.
There’s a race to develop intuitive ways
to interact with virtual worlds and the Gest
not only allows for natural gesture controls
but also typing.
The first device kits plan to ship in 2016.
Earlier this month, Sharp teased RoBoHoN - the
robot smartphone.
It can walk, sit down, dance and features
voice and facial recognition.
It’s pretty big and heavy for a smartphone
but it’s a robot friend in your pocket.
So yeah.
It’ll be on sale in Japan in 2016.
Finally, Andy Thomas captured various bird
sounds and visualized them with particle effects.
I’m gonna leave you with a tensegrity robot
climbing up a duct.
And as always - thanks
for watching.